core: add digraph group hierarchy (#17050)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/users-sources/access-control/permissions.md

## Fundamentals of authentik permissions

> A [role](../roles/index.md) is a collection of permissions. A user or a group may have any number of roles. A user has a certain permission if they have a role that has that permission, or if they are part of a group (either directly or indirectly) which has a role that has that permission.

Reviewer: ```
A user or a group can be assigned to any number of roles.
```

- Example 1 (no group): Judith has the role "RADIUS", which has every permission for RADIUS providers and property mappings. Then, Judith has permission to add/view/change/delete RADIUS providers or RADIUS property mappings.

> - Example 2 (direct group): Marie is part of the group "Auditors". That group has the role "Event Log manager", which in turn has the permissions "Can view Event", "Can change Event", and "Can delete Event". Then, Marie has permissions to view, change, or delete Events.

Reviewer: "then" is typically used in a time-oriented way, as in next", or "afterwards"...

- Example 3 (indirect group): Elaine is part of the group "Accounting", which has a parent group "Back office", which has a parent group "Employees". The group "Employees" has the role "Read-only, which has view permissions on all object types. Then, Elaine has the permission to view any object in authentik through indirect membership of the "Employees" group.

:::info
From 2025.12, authentik's access control is fully role-based. Before 2025.12, Admins could assign permissions to individual [users](../user/index.mdx). To mimic this behavior of "User permissions", an Admin can
:::

There are two main types of permissions in authentik:

- [**Global permissions**](#global-permissions)
- [**Object permissions**](#object-permissions)

> Additionally, authentik employs _initial permissions_ to streamline the process of granting object-level permissions when an object (user or role) is created. This feature automatically adds permissions for newly created objects to the role that created them. For more details, refer to [Initial permissions](./initial_permissions.mdx).

Reviewer: If an admin still has to create the IP, as show in our How To steps, then it is misleading to not say that this has to be manually implemented, and to only say that the permissions are automatically assigned. I think we can say both, something like:

"When an Admin implements initial permissions, this feature automatically adds permissions for newly created objects to the role (and thus users with that role) that created them."

### Global permissions

Global permissions define coarse-grained access control. For example, a role with a global permission of "Can change Flow" can change any [flow](../../add-secure-apps/flows-stages/flow/index.md). Some permissions only make sense as global permissions, e.g. the permission to add a specific object type or whether a user [`Can view admin interface`](./manage_permissions.md#assign-can-view-admin-interface-permissions).

### Object permissions

An object permission grants permission on a single object (e.g. a [user](../user/index.mdx), a [group](../groups/index.mdx), a [role](../roles/index.md), a [flow](../../add-secure-apps/flows-stages/flow/index.md), etc.) instead of all objects of a specific type. For example, a role with only the object permission to change the Default Authentication flow will not be able to change any other flow.

> 

Reviewer: Actually, it's not wrong, criminy, words are hard, because that table *does indeed define WHO (the users listed in the table) can do what to the user object (the user on the details page)

> An object permission grants permission on a single object (e.g. a [user](../user/index.mdx), a [group](../groups/index.mdx), a [role](../roles/index.md), a [flow](../../add-secure-apps/flows-stages/flow/index.md), etc.) instead of all objects of a specific type. For example, a role with only the object permission to change the Default Authentication flow will not be able to change any other flow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An object permission grants permission on a single object (e.g. a [user](../user/index.mdx), a [group](../groups/index.mdx), a [role](../roles/index.md), a [flow](../../add-secure-apps/flows-stages/flow/index.md), etc.) instead of all objects of a specific type. 

For example, a role with only the object permission to change the Default Authentication flow will not be able to change any other flow.
```

## Viewing permissions

Many objects in authentik's Admin interface have a Permissions view to double-check which roles have access to that particular object. Those permissions describe what those roles can do TO the object detailed on the page.

> For example, the Admin interface UI shown below shows the Role Permissions table for the user named Peter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the Admin interface UI shown below shows the Permissions tab for the user named Peter, with a list of what users can do what to the user object for Peter.
```

> For example, the Admin interface UI shown below shows the Role Permissions table for the user named Peter.

Reviewer: Different UI page @gergosimonyi .. I was looking at the User detail page.. as in my screenshot above.

> For example, the Admin interface UI shown below shows the Role Permissions table for the user named Peter.

Author: Offline resolution: changed button label to "Assign role permissions", keeping table title (for now at least).
